DOCSP-41136: Specify Documents to Return (#10)
mongodb/docs-kotlin-sync: source/read/specify-documents-to-return.txt

.. _kotlin-sync-specify-documents-to-return:

===========================
Specify Documents to Return
===========================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference
 
.. meta::
   :keywords: read, paginate, pagination, order, code example

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to specify which documents to return from a read
operation by using the following methods:

> - ``limit()``: Specifies the maximum number of documents to return from a query.
> - ``sort()``: Specifies the sort order for the returned documents.
> - ``skip()``: Specifies the number of documents to skip before returning query results.

Reviewer: I: [I don't think these should have periods](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/lists/#list-items)

```suggestion
- ``limit()``: Specifies the maximum number of documents to return from a query
- ``sort()``: Specifies the sort order for the returned documents
- ``skip()``: Specifies the number of documents to skip before returning query results
```

The documents in this collection are modeled by the following {+language+} data class:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/read/specify-documents-to-return.kt
   :start-after: start-data-class
   :end-before: end-data-class
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable:

.. _kotlin-sync-limit:

Limit
-----

To specify the maximum number of documents returned from a read operation,
call the ``limit()`` method.

The following example finds all restaurants that have a ``cuisine`` field value
of ``"Italian"`` and limits the results to 5 documents:

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/read/specify-documents-to-return.kt
      :start-after: start-limit
      :end-before: end-limit
      :language: kotlin
      :dedent:

   .. output::
      :visible: false

      Restaurant(name=Philadelphia Grille Express, borough=Brooklyn, cuisine=Italian)
      Restaurant(name=Isle Of Capri Resturant, borough=Manhattan, cuisine=Italian)
      Restaurant(name=Marchis Restaurant, borough=Manhattan, cuisine=Italian)
      Restaurant(name=Crystal Room, borough=Staten Island, cuisine=Italian)
      Restaurant(name=Forlinis Restaurant, borough=Manhattan, cuisine=Italian)

.. tip::

>    The preceding example returns the first five documents returned by the query in
>    no particular order. The following section describes how to return the documents

Reviewer: I: Technically the docs are returned in [natural order](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/glossary/#std-term-natural-order)

```suggestion
   The preceding example returns the first five documents returned by the query in
   :manual:`natural order </reference/glossary/#std-term-natural-order>`. The following section describes how to return the documents
```

   in a specified sort order.

.. _kotlin-sync-sort:

Sort
----

To return documents in a specified order, call the ``sort()`` method. The ``sort()``
method takes a sort direction as a parameter. To specify the sort direction,

> use the ``Sorts.ascending()`` or ``Sorts.descending()`` methods. ``ascending()``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use the ``Sorts.ascending()`` or ``Sorts.descending()`` method. ``ascending()``
```

> use the ``Sorts.ascending()`` or ``Sorts.descending()`` methods. ``ascending()``
> sorts values from lowest to highest, and ``descending()`` sorts values from highest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use the ``Sorts.ascending()`` or ``Sorts.descending()`` methods. The ``Sorts.ascending()``
method sorts values from lowest to highest, and the ``Sorts.descending()`` method sorts
values from highest
```

> to lowest. If you don't specify either direction, ``sort()`` defaults to sorting in
> ascending order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to lowest. If you don't specify a sort direction, ``sort()`` returns the documents in
ascending order.
```

``"Italian"``. The results are sorted in alphabetical order, skipping the first
10 documents and limiting the results to 5 documents:

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/read/specify-documents-to-return.kt
      :start-after: start-limit-sort-skip
      :end-before: end-limit-sort-skip
      :language: kotlin
      :dedent:

   .. output::
      :visible: false

      Restaurant(name=Acqua, borough=Manhattan, cuisine=Italian)
      Restaurant(name=Acqua Restaurant, borough=Manhattan, cuisine=Italian)
      Restaurant(name=Acqua Santa, borough=Brooklyn, cuisine=Italian)
      Restaurant(name=Acquista Trattoria, borough=Queens, cuisine=Italian)
      Restaurant(name=Acquolina Catering, borough=Manhattan, cuisine=Italian)

.. note::

   The order in which you call these methods doesn't change the documents
   that are returned. The driver automatically reorders the calls to perform the
   sort and skip operations first, and the limit operation afterward.

Additional Information
----------------------

.. TODO: For more information about specifying a query, see :ref:`kotlin-sync-specify-query`.

> For more information about retrieving documents, see :ref:`kotlin-sync-retrieve`.

Author: Note for reviewers: The retrieve page here is currently also in review. This PR should be merged in after the retrieve page is merged.

[Link to Retrieve page PR](https://github.com/mongodb/docs-kotlin-sync/pull/6)

API Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To learn more about any of the methods or types discussed in this

> guide, see the following API Documentation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
guide, see the following API documentation:
```
